20 August 2013 In Jodhpur, Rajasthan,
IPS Ajay Lamba, who is the Deputy
Commissioner of Police of that area, is in his
cab and then his personal
assistant tells him that a
reporter from Star News from Delhi is waiting for him on the phone.
Ajay Lamba picks up the phone and the reporter
tells him something which shocks him.
Good evening sir, I want to
talk to you about the FIR registered against Asaram Bapu in Jodhpur.
Tell me, in the FIR,
Asaram Bapu has allegedly raped a minor girl.
Ajay Lamba knows
how big and powerful a man Asaram Bapu is. Many
politicians bow their heads in
front of him but they have no idea that
an FIR has been registered against him. That too
in a case, he tells the reporter that he has
no information about it and disconnects the phone.
Then he looks at his phone and there is a
missed call. Whose missed call is it?
DCP of Central Delhi Ajal Lamba immediately
calls the DCP and the DCP confirms the same shocking news to
him that a few hours ago, a
16-year-old girl was murdered.  A girl reported
that Asaram Bapu had
sexually assaulted her on the night of 15 August 2013. So how can a
man who has lakhs of followers and in
front of whom even politicians bow their heads, do
such a disgusting act? Let's
know the crazy story of Asaram Bapu.
In a Berani village near the Sindh river, which is
now in Pakistan, in April 1941,
a boy is born there - Asumal Siru Malani.
This family belongs to the Baniya caste in the Sindhi society
and is a very rich family. Since childhood,
Asumal's mother teaches her son about religion. She makes
him sit in front of Thakurji or Lord
Krishna and says that son,
you have to worship him and if you
do it properly, he will give you prasad.
Asumal follows all these things of his mother.
Every day he wakes up early in the morning and
worships Thakurji. But after 6 years, the entire life of this family and
crores of people is going to change.
Due to the tension, Asumal's family has to
leave their property in Pakistan.
And they come to India in Ahmedabad. This
family which was very rich in Pakistan is now
living a poor life in Ahmedabad.
After some time, Asumal's father first
starts a wood business and then
spices business due to which the
financial condition of the family improves a bit.
At the age of 7, Asumal goes to
Jai Hind School in Ahmedabad for his primary education. It is
written in his official biography that his memory is so sharp
that he can tell the teacher any poem, song or lesson by rote
exactly.
Asumal reaches third class,
then another tragedy comes in the family.
He is just 10 years old and his
father dies.
After his father's death, Asumal has to
take the responsibility of the family and has to
leave school. After this there are two versions of this
story. The first version says that Asumal
goes to Ajmer and there he drives a Tonga
from the railway station to the Dargah of Ajmer Sharif. The
second version which is in his biography
says that Asumal lives in Siddapur in Gujarat.  He
starts working in his relative's shop
and due to his hard work and dedication
he wins the trust of his employer, but
despite working in the shop he is
very committed towards religion. Due to this commitment
many people come to him to
take his blessings. As his age
increases, his family
starts planning his marriage, but Asumal
says that he wants to follow the path of a saint and he does not want to get
married.
That is why just eight days before his marriage he runs
away from his house without telling anyone. His
family searches for him everywhere and
meets him in an ashram in Bharuch city. The
whole family folds their hands in front of him and says that
your engagement has been fixed, if we
cancel it, what will happen to our respect, at
least think about us.
Asumal then agrees that he should
marry Lakshmi Devi. Now in the next few years
many such things happen which are not in Asaram Bapu's
biography but are in this book,
like Asumal does many small jobs.
In 1959, a woman accused Asumal of marriage.  A murder
case is also registered but because there is
no evidence against him, nothing much happens in this case
but
you will not find all these things in his biography
whereas what the biography says is that Asumal's
focus is only on one thing,
spirituality. Despite his marriage,
Asumal wants to become a sanyasi. For this, on
23 February 1964, at the age of 23, he leaves
his home. Leaving his wife
behind, wandering from one place to another,
he reaches Event Th where many saints give
him knowledge and blessings. Then he
goes to Vrindavan and after Vrindavan,
Nainital, there he meets Leela Shahi Maharaj who is
a famous saint in the country. Maharaj ji
accepts Asumal as his disciple and
shows him the path of spirituality. Maharaj ji
tells Asumal that now you go home and
meditate from there, so Asumal comes back to Ahmedabad
and there is a small village on the banks of the Narmada river,
Moti Koral and from there he
starts his meditation. Now
in his biography  It is written that
mystical happenings happen to him here. He meditates so much for 40 days
that
he has reached a deep part of this path. After a few days,
his mother and wife come to take him home.
Asumal gets ready to go home
and boards a train from Ahmedabad
with his mother and wife, but as soon as the
train starts moving, he jumps
immediately and goes to another train
which is going in the opposite direction i.e. towards Mumbai.
Now leave Asumal's life, let's talk
about our life for the next one minute.
If you have
20000000 000 burnt, then you will feel bad, right?
According to that, you have 24 hours in a day,
but if you spend five hours watching reels, then you do
n't feel bad. Reels are never going to
end, but spend two and a half months of the year
just watching reels, why not
watch useful videos and if you don't know how to
watch useful videos, then I am recommending you an app,
Sikho App, which is used by many
IETS.  has made it, videos come on it but
not useless reels but such
videos from which you can learn something like learning how to
speak English, how to
invest in the stock market,
how to build your own business or
how to update things like Aadhar card and PAN card for
any government work, you
can learn that on this app, I also launched a show
on Seekho App where I give productivity tips
which I follow in my life
and the first episode of this show has been launched
where I tell
how you can increase your focus and you
can take a trial of Sikh P for just one rupee where there are
more than 10000 videos from which you
can learn and my episode is going to come every week,
so download it, the
link is in the Seekwa Pup description now coming
back to the video, there he
goes to Brijeshwari temple 75 km away from Mumbai where his
guru is Lilashah Ji Maharaj, here he
meditates more and attains self knowledge i.e.
self
realization Shri Asaram Ji Maharaj, now
Asaram finally decides that he will
go to his home in Ahmedabad.
Basant Rawat, who is a journalist in Ahmedabad,
says that Asaram
left the temple because Leela Shah had thrown
him out of her ashram. So there are
two versions of this story, but we definitely
know that on 3rd July 1971, Asaram
reaches Ahmedabad and there he
builds a Moksha Kutir in a small hut
where he gives knowledge to the people around
and also provides Ayurvedic medicine. From here, Asaram
sets up his base and
teaches people about religion. So Asaram's mission,
which was set up in a small hut
in Motera area of Ahmedabad,
keeps growing slowly and there are three reasons for this. The first
thing is that Asaram's ashram
provides free food and other facilities to those who
come to listen to his sermons. Then Asaram does
not discriminate on the basis of caste or community, that is why he becomes especially
popular
among the backward people of Gujarat and lastly among the untouchables.
Yagnik, a social scientist in Ahmedabad,
says that at the same time, among the Gujarati middle class.  The
feeling of religion is awakening. At this time, the
Bharatiya Janata Party is becoming popular in Gujarat
and along with them, the RSS organization is
talking about a unified Hindu identity.
Along with this, the Ram Janmabhoomi
movement is also growing and
Asaram Bapu benefits from all these things.
During the next few years, Asaram Bapu opens at least
400 ashrams. His popularity increases so much in India and outside India that it seems as if
politicians of every party want his blessings.
Many of these ashrams have Gurukuls
where children attend school. The
Gujarat government is also behind this big empire of Asaram.
During the Congress rule
in 1981 and 1992, the government gave him land of about 14000
square meters. In 1993,
Asaram Bapu even represented India
in the Parliament of World Reviews.
Now Asaram Bapu feels that he is at the
top. He has money, name, fame
and even the big politicians of the country are
bowing their heads, but this  Time gives him a shock.
In 1997, a 20-year-old girl
filed a sexual assault case against Asaram.
You will find the news of this in a small Gujarati
local newspaper. What happened after that,
we don't know. We definitely know
that Asaram has a strong hold on his politicians. For example,
Narendra Modi also attends Asaram's
programs to win the by-election. Ishta Devay,
Bhakti Devay, Bhakti Devay and Narendra
Modi is not the only politician. Former
Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee or
Congress leader Digvijay Singh, all these leaders
attend his programs, which will give
you an idea of the influence of this man. But the
bad news starts with Asaram in
2008. In 2008, a 9-year-old boy comes
with his father to Asaram's
Motera Ashram in Ahmedabad. There, they
meet a wallet and he tells the father
that why don't you get your son
admitted in our Gurukul. They decide
that this is a good thing, he will get his son admitted in his Gurukul.
No, but he also gets his brother's son
admitted. That month, both brothers
go to meet their sons many times to
see if everything is going well or
not. On 3rd July 2008, both brothers go back to
meet their children and
then return home at 2:30 in the afternoon.
But at 9:00 in the night,
they get a call from the ashram administration asking
if the children have returned home. He says
no, the children are not at home. Why are you
calling? The ashram administration
says because the children are not in the ashram, the
children have gone missing. The next day,
both brothers immediately go to the police station to
file a complaint. As soon as they
reach the police station, they see that
two officials of the ashram are sitting in the police station.
These two officials
talk to the police and then come out.
Only after coming out, both brothers
get permission to enter the police station. Both
brothers ask the police to file a complaint,
but the police instead get angry at them
and refuse to file the complaint.
Whereas Asaram
A message is sent to both the brothers that they should cross the road,
pick up seven bricks and
put them in hot water along with the clothes of their children. Then take these clothes, turn them upside
down and hang them in the children's room to
dry. Asaram promises them
that the children will return within four hours.
Then what happens? They wait but
nothing
happens. At 9 in the night, both the brothers are finally
able to lodge a police complaint. The next
day the ashram gets the news that
two bodies were found in the nearby river.
These dead bodies are of those two boys. The Indian
Express report says that there is no
external injury on their bodies. But
in this book it is written that both the bodies are in very
bad condition. There are so many bad details
that I cannot even tell you. Now at first the
police do not do anything but
arrest the boy of the event. They say
that this child was fed up with the rules of the Gurukul
and wanted to stop it, so
he committed murder. The children's family
refuses to accept this and
demands a CBI investigation.
In August 2008, the Chief Minister  Narendra Modi
creates a commission
for this investigation and after 5 years this
commission submits its report, the
details of which are made public in 2019. This
report does not blame Asaram's ashram
and gives him a clean chit, but
Asaram Bapu's empire worth crores of rupees
gets a shock when IPS Lamba receives a call
[Music]
Good evening sir, I want to
talk about the FIR registered against Asaram Bapu in Jodhpur. Please
tell me, in the FIR,
Asaram Bapu has allegedly raped a minor girl. The
DCP says that the FIR has been
registered under several sections of the IPC and the
POCSO Act has also been applied, a law that provides for
sexual
abuse of children. The incident took place in Manai, a village near Jodhpur. The
DCP tells Ajay that
since this incident has taken place in Jodhpur, the
Jodhpur police will have to
investigate it and the victim and
her family are about to come to you in Jodhpur.
When Ajay Lamba reads the details of the case,
he comes to know that this incident took place in Manai village near Jodhpur.  The incident
happened in a small hut in a village which is
near a big farm house of Asaram Bapu.
Ajay Lamba says that when he
heard the word hut, he thought it would be a small
slum, especially because Asaram
Bapu has given up luxury things
because he is a saint, but when he woke up,
he came to know that it is not a small hut
but it is a two bedroom bungalow which is
made of very expensive white marble, there is a
big kitchen, modern bathroom,
split AC and double bed
with expensive mattress. When they reach the police station, the
victim and her parents are
present there and they
start recording the victim's statement. The 16-year-old
girl tells that she is
from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. The girl's father has a
transport business and he has been a
devotee of Asaram Bapu for many years. The father
even took a loan to build an ashram in the name of Asaram Bapu
and the girl and her
younger brother go to Asaram's Gurukul
for studies, it is a residential
school.  And in the month of August, the girl fell
sick, so she told her hostel
warden about this. The warden, whose
name is Shilpi, says that you should
rest now, there is no need to go to the doctor.
But the next day, the girl is
called to the Gurukul office and is told that
a spirit has entered inside you and only
Bapu can cure you. Her
parents are called and are told to
take her to Bapu immediately.
Two days later, the three come to Jodhpur. She
says that there they see Bapu who is
conducting his satsang with 150 people.
As soon as the satsang ends, he
calls all three to talk to them. He
looks into the girl's eyes and says that
I see a devil inside you
and I will take this devil out.
Asaram Bapu tells all three to
go and rest now, I will call you later. There is
time now. At 10 pm, the girl and her
family are called. Asaram Bapu
asks the girl that what do you
want to become when you grow up? The girl says  I want to become a CA.
Asaram Bapu says
what will you do by becoming a CA, they all fall at my feet.
Next day at 10 pm, Bapu
calls all three of them to his hut
but tells the parents to
go to the main gate of the hut and sit there and
chant mantras and till then I will cure your daughter.
Asaram Bapu is lying on the bed,
he tells his cook to
bring milk for me and bring that girl to his
room.
As soon as the girl comes inside the room, she
sees that the lights are off. Asaram
is lying on the bed and he tells the girl to
sit near him. The girl starts shivering
and seeing this, Asaram tells her
that I will recite some mantras which will drive the
devil inside you.
In her statement to the police, the girl says that
I have never been alone with any man in
a room in my life, but at that
time I told myself that he is my
Guru, God, Messiah, then Asaram
forces the girl to do it and
what else does he say, go out and do
not tell anything to anyone.  If you say anything, I will
kill your brother and family. The girl then
wears her clothes and goes out of the hut. The
next day the whole family goes to their house without saying anything.
But the girl does not have the courage to
tell anyone what happened. But after a day or two
she cannot keep this thing inside her mind.
She tells this to her mother. Her
parents are in shock. They say that
we will immediately go to Asaram but
Asaram is in Delhi. So they
leave Rajasthan for Delhi immediately. As soon as they
reach the ashram, Asaram's staff does
not let them enter. So the whole family
decides that they will file a police complaint. There is a
police station of Kamla Market nearby. They go there the same night and
file a complaint. The girl is then taken
for a medical examination
where a female officer tells IPS Ajay
Lamba that so it has happened sir, Delhi
police team is now on its way to Jodhpur
now to probe charges against Asaram. The
cell tight gang in fact has been  Accused
Now as soon as the news of this FIR becomes public,
Asaram Bapu's followers create a ruckus,
like on August 24, thousands of people started a protest
in Delhi's Jantar Mantar.
Asaram's son even said that the
victim is mentally unstable. He
told his supporters in Raj Court that
she used to take two and a half hours to bathe and
also took 45 minutes for a break. She
is mentally unstable and to solve this problem, the
girl's parents
brought her to Bapu, while Jodhpur police
ignores all these things and
starts collecting evidence against Asaram Bapu.
Wearing civilian clothes, they
prepare different teams and send them to Asaram Bapu
's areas and what they find out will send
chills down your spine.
In the investigation, it is found that
even after filing the FIR, Asaram Bapu
openly travels in the country,
visits ashrams and meets his followers.
I am taunting you.  IPS Arjay
Lamba says that his actions showed
that he was not afraid of anything. A team of one or two
officers in civilian clothes
reached the Gurukul where the victim was studying
and they found out that Asaram was
addicted to sex. Every night he used to demand a new mature girl
and the
management team of his ashram was also involved in this. For example,
Shilpi was the warden in the victim's Gurukul
and she and Prakash, who is Asaram's cook,
constantly looked for young and attractive girls
for Asaram. The police also
found out that there are many girls in Asaram's Gurukul
who leave the Gurukul during the study season, that too
just before the board exams. When the police tried to search for them
and met their families,
they found out that the girls'
families refused to talk. The
investigation revealed that Asaram had
brainwashed the girls that he was
God for them and he had specially
chosen them. Then they were told that they were
ill and only one man could cure them.
Asaram Bapu, many of these girls are
from very poor families and either they are given
money to keep quiet or
they are threatened. Due to this threat,
many parents do not file any legal complaint.
After collecting all these evidences, Jodhpur police sends a notice to Asaram
that he has to come to the police station by 29th August. The
date for investigation comes
but Asaram does not come to the police station,
after which Jodhpur police decides a plan to
arrest Asaram.
Now this is going to be a very complicated one
because Asaram is surrounded by thousands of followers all the time
who consider him God.
That is why a team of five top officers is formed
who are sent to the ashram in Indore where
Asaram is. With this team there are 10 commandos with
weapons, but by the time the police of Jodhpur and Indore
reach that ashram, Asaram
disappears from there, after which all the
police teams are put on high alert in the major cities of the country,
but none of them
can find Asaram. Then on 30th August
Jodhpur  The police hold a press conference
where they announce that Asaram has
fled and now they will have to arrest him.
As soon as the press conference ends,
they get a call from Bhopal airport
that Asaram is in Bhopal airport.
Asaram's picture is from 6:00 pm on Friday.
Baba is seen for the second time at Bhopal airport.
He gets out of the car and quickly
goes inside the airport. But Asaram tries to
escape from Bhopal airport to his ashram in Indore
but he does not know that many
police officers are deployed in civilian close at his
ashram in Indore and one officer
sees that Asaram is not affected at all.
Asaram ji, it is a very difficult time.
Lookout notice has been issued. Summons have also been
issued to you by Jodhpur police today. It is a very
difficult situation. Even bigger allegations have been made for one
and a half years but they did not last. Are you
also behind this? There is not only a
political conspiracy, there is also a political
conspiracy and a very old series is going on
and I will not like to take the name of conspiracy.
In my view, everyone's welfare,
everyone's welfare. Then the Jodhpur police finally
reaches the ashram and when they
approach him,  He says you know who I am,
you know
how many followers I have in this country, you know
how many politicians have my hand on their heads,
after that the conversation with the police goes on for hours
and finally Asaram says okay
I will go with you to Jodhpur but not now
because it is 12:00 in the night, we will go the next morning
because he has a plan going on in his mind,
then he looks at his daughter
and he feels that no
one in the police team can speak Sindhi, that is why
he tells his son to gather as many
followers as he can at night so that you can
block all the exits of the ashram, but this
thing does not work because one officer in the police team
understands Sindhi and so they
decide that they will take Asaram to Jodhpur that very night,
then Asaram
starts shouting hey hey what is happening
Narayan stop them devotees see they are taking your
Baba by holding him, everyone
stop them, but the police team somehow
escapes from all those followers and puts Asaram in their car,
but still problems  It is not over,
as soon as he reaches the main road, many
followers start following him. Then
he somehow reaches the airport but he comes to know
that there is no direct flight from Indore to Jodhpur, so
he will have to
go from Indore to Delhi and then from Delhi to Jodhpur,
but as soon as this team
reaches Delhi from Indore with Asaram and then
takes a connecting flight from Delhi to Jodhpur,
they come to know that Aaram the tainted self
styled good man is being taken to
Jodhpur, he is right now on the flight and
his supporters again as you see they are used to
misbehaving with the media,
more than 50 followers of Asaram had booked the same flight by which the
police were taking him to Jodhpur
and as soon as the flight takes off, they
start shouting in support of Asaram. After an hour,
finally the police lands in Jodhpur
with Asaram, but now the police realizes
what Asaram's supporters can do,
so they do not take him to the police station,
but take him to a guest house, there
Asaram is given 24 hours police custody.  Officers watch
while a separate police force is
deployed outside. Seeing that he is now
surrounded from all sides, Asaram starts getting more furious.
DCP Ajay Lamba asks him
why did you do this. Asaram says I made a mistake.
Then he gives full information to the police
and all the details that he has given
match with the FIR that the
victim had filed. His medical
examination is done to prove his potency, to
see if he
can indulge in sexual activity
or not and it is proved.
After this, he is sent to custody. He said that he can change his
fate. No matter how big the
trouble is, he cannot survive. Jogi re, we have been
looted in your love. Even after his arrest, the
police cannot live in peace because
they get many threats from supporters and
politicians. Ajay Lamba says that he gets
many calls
from politicians, bureaucrats and senior police officers. Why would he
say that first of all, everyone says on the phone
that I just want to know the details of the case.
But later they said that in this case they should
work with a little ease. The police team is
also bribed. Like, a police officer is
offered by Asaram's supporters that
they will make him the owner of
many of Asaram's properties and ashrams in Rajasthan if he
stops this investigation. But as soon as the
news reaches that the police is adamant on its case,
many people stand against Asaram
who were from his team. Like Amrit
Prajapati, who is an Ayurvedic doctor and has
worked for Asaram for 15 years,
he says that Asaram used to take insulin
but he never questioned
why. But one day when he went for Asaram's health
checkup, he came to know
why insulin was kept in the bedroom.
Insulin was being taken to increase Asaram's physical
stamina because he was
so evolved in sexual activity.
Now Jodhpur police finally
submits a 6000 page chart sheet
in the 2013 rape case and the trial begins.
But today Asaram's lawyers argue that
he  The girl is not a minor but an adult.
They want to achieve two things from this: that
POCSO charges are not put on Asaram
so that he does not get life imprisonment and once the
POCSO Act is dropped, it will be
easy for him to get bail. Asaram's
followers go to a school which is
run by controversial Baba
Chinmayananda who is a supporter of Asaram. The victim
attended this school when she was very young and Asaram's
followers want him to
put so much pressure on the school principal that he releases a fake
certificate and this is what happens.
In February 2014, Asaram's lawyers
produce a document to show
that the girl is not a minor but the court
rejects this while Jodhpur
police brings the victim's official 10th standard
certificate to prove
that she is a minor and the program is
not over yet. Asaram's followers
try their best to ensure that the case does not proceed.
Seven witnesses are attacked during the next 2 years.
Three of them die
and one goes missing. Like
in February 2014, one of Asaram's videographers is
injured by several attackers. A
bomb is thrown on a third witness. The police
even gets a tip-off that a conspiracy was being hatched to
put a bomb in the Jodhpur police car.
Imagine, but
despite all these things, the court and the police
do their duty and the verdict is delivered. The self-
proclaimed good man has been
given life in imprisonment by a court in
Rajasthan, Jodhpur. On April 25, 2018, Asaram
Bapu gets life imprisonment for raping a 16-year-old
girl. Five years later, he
gets another life imprisonment in another case, which
shows us that if our government and
law want, a powerful and disgusting man
can be taught a lesson. And don't forget to
check out my productivity show on Seekop. The
first episode on Focus has
actually gone live. The
link is in the description. See you now.  there